[Music]
so how do you feel about public
restrooms dread thought so but have you
ever wondered why toilets dog doors
rarely reach all the way to the floor
well it turns out there's not one but
several fully valid reasons for not
enclosing bathroom stalls some of them
are obvious while others turned out to
be unexpected ready to take the plunge
here we go if a person loses
consciousness or has some other urgent
medical condition in a fully enclosed
stall it could take hours until someone
notices it and as you know there are
emergencies when every minute counts on
the other hand if there's a gap between
the floor and the door of a bathroom
stall other visitors will immediately
notice a person who's passed out on top
of that in this case there's no need to
break down the door since a medical
worker can slip under it through the gap
and unlock it from the inside space
below the stall door helps visitors to
see that there's someone inside and
prevents people from barging in on
another person you know how it works you
see someone's feet inside the stall you
look for another unoccupied toilet or
you wait your turn
besides when public bathroom doors don't
reach the floor it prevents unnecessary
lines people can calculate in their
heads how much time they'll need to
spend on waiting for an unoccupied stone
and decide whether they're ready to wait
or they'd rather look for another public
restroom now fully enclosed stalls are
more likely to provide you with an
unforgettable gag-inducing experience
since it isn't so easy to get rid of the
smells inside open stalls on the
contrary have much better ventilation
which is essential when it comes to
public bathroom stalls thanks to air
circulation bad smells dissipate faster
but still not fast enough for me a bit
more obvious and probably one of the
most common reasons is that not fully
enclosed bathroom stalls are cheaper
first to produce a door in such a stall
less material is needed
therefore it costs less to make to buy
and to install this
door which is one of the most crucial
things for a business owner in addition
simple stall divisions are way easier
they don't depend on the height of the
ceiling or the evenness of the floor but
if you decide to order floor-to-ceiling
stalls it will require much more effort
such as custom fitting and precise
cutting for many businesses and all this
trouble doesn't make any financial sense
leaving a gap under a bathroom stall
door discourages all kinds of
inappropriate behavior psychologically
the less protected and enclosed a person
feels the less likely they are to do
something harmful and risky and if a
public toilet stall reaches all the way
to the floor it allows people to feel
like they're in private as a result they
won't hesitate to let's say draw
graffiti or damage the stall in any
other way also with a gap under the door
other visitors will notice somebody
who's causing trouble and stop this
activity right away it's next to
impossible to get out of a fully
enclosed bathroom stall on your own once
the lock jams you'd be trapped inside
and must call for help on the contrary
when a toilet has a gap under the door
in case of an emergency you can easily
escape by crawling under it
imagine the nightmarish situation when
after doing your business
you suddenly realize there's no toilet
paper in your stall bill unfortunately
if at that moment you're in a fully
enclosed stall no one can save you but
if you've been lucky enough to
experience this tragic problem in a
stall with a gap under the door you can
swallow your embarrassment and ask your
neighbor to save the day by handing over
some paper have you ever had any
embarrassing moments like this in a
public restroom let me know down in the
comments fully enclosed stalls give
visitors a cozy feeling of isolation
they cut out the noise of heavy bathroom
traffic and as a result people lose the
sense of others who are waiting for
their turn they get more relaxed and
spend longer on taking care of their
business but when a bathroom stall isn't
entirely enclosed
others tend to feel more rushed which
speeds up the traffic and gets rid of
bathroom lines and the last and probably
the most apparent reason for leaving the
gap is that it makes bathrooms easier to
clean a custodian can simply run their
mop under the doors instead of wasting
time on opening and closing each of them
you can imagine what a time-saver it is
if a bathroom is large the same goes for
power cleaning the floor when there's
more open space for water to flow
cleaning becomes faster and more
efficient boi file this stuff away for
when you're at a party and you are
surrounded by obnoxious people who won't
let you get a word in edgewise simply
jump in with some of these public
restroom facts and watch how fast you
can clear the room told you this stuff
is useful ok ok now I get it but here's
another question that intrigues me why
do most bathroom main entry doors open
inwards I mean that when you enter you
must push the door and when you leave
you pull it but wouldn't it make more
sense if it were vice-versa this way you
wouldn't have to touch the door handle
with your freshly washed hands as you
exit just push it with your shoulder and
you're free but no even though it's not
true about all public bathrooms to exit
most of them you must touch the doorknob
what gives well first it prevents the
door from blocking the hallway imagine
there's high bathroom traffic as a
result if the door was of the push to
exit type it would take even on your
space and make people who walk down the
hallway crowd at the door also next to
many public toilets there are closets
drinking fountains and other utilities
and a door that opens outward would
cause a lot of inconvenience to those
who need to use these amenities plus can
you imagine how hard it would be to
navigate the hallway if there's an
emergency bathroom doors shouldn't
hinder or block the movement in case of
an evacuation another reason to have
push to enter doors in public bathrooms
is safety these doors have both the lock
and hinges on the inside
for no one can lock you in the bathroom
also doors that open inward help to
handle unpleasant smells which aren't
rare for public bathrooms the thing is
that when you open the door in the
bathroom some fresh outside in non
smelly air gets sucked inside and helps
to dissipate the bad smells as for a
doors opening outward the pattern would
be the opposite the smelly air would be
constantly sucked out of the bathroom
well that stinks you probably won't
argue that when you're in the bathroom
you want some privacy but at the same
time a door that swings out from the
restroom gives visitors and passers-by a
much better unrestricted view of what's
happening inside the bathroom then one
that opens inward a push to enter door
also makes sense if you're going to the
bathroom to wash something off your
hands this way you can use your shoulder
to open the bathroom door and you don't
have to touch the door handle and
finally according to my personal
observations people are usually in a way
bigger hurry when they enter the
bathroom than when they exit you never
know maybe those precious seconds save
by a push to enter door will prevent
some poor soul from having severely
extremely unpleasant moments if you know
what I mean
well flush that hey if you learn
something new today then give the video
a like and share with a friend and here
are some other videos I think you'll
enjoy just click on the left or right
and remember stay on the bright side of
life